## JPEG image compression

#### ABSTRACT:
Original image generated by a camera sensor is a very large store, and therefore is not efficient. The present scenario requires the use of
efficient image compression techniques to fulfill faster image transfers
and low storage space requirements. JPEG is often applied for the
processing and storage of full-color images with realistic elements and
brightness and color transitions.Also this format is used for storing and
transmitting graphical digital content (photos, scanned copies of digitized
pictures).
It is the most convenient for transmission of compressed images on the
Internet, because it takes less space in comparison to other formats.
However, JPEG is ideal for home photo storage, photo transmission
through the Internet or posting on the site.

#### INTRODUCTION:
JPEG is an image compression standard to store image in compressed
format. It represents the Joint Photographic Experts Group. Excellent
quality of JPEG is that it achieves high compression ratio and quality is
with almost no loss. JPEG format is very popular, and is used in a
large-sized image switching a plurality of devices such as digital
cameras, and is selected in the bandwidth-limited environments, such as
the format of the Internet. JPEG algorithm is best suited for photos and
realistic scenes with smooth changes in tone and color painting. JPEG is
not suitable for use with many edges and sharp changes, since this may
result in many image artifacts in the resulting image. In these cases, it is
best to use a lossless format such as PNG, TIFF or GIF. For this reason,
JPEG is not in use for medical and scientific applications, where the
image needs to be exact and slight error results into no reproduction of
captured data.
JPEG image may accept further losses, if it is frequently edited, and
then save it. The operation of decompression and recompression can
further reduce image quality. To solve this problem, the image should be
edited and saved in a lossless format, only converted to JPEG format,
just before the final transport to the required media. This ensures
minimal loss due to frequent savings. Saved as JPEG image files usually
have extensions such as .jpg, jpeg, or .jpeg . 


##### Detailed report is available in this repository itself.
